Regulatory burdens and industry shifts: The year 2020 in wealth management.As a new decade begins, Jan. 1 will bring a variety of challenges for financial advisors: daily turmoil and macroeconomic changes; compliance burdens, and an acceleration of trends years in the making. The firms that are prepared will have a prosperous new year. But companies caught leaving advisors in the headwinds may vanish altogether.In many ways, a trip back in time to 2010 in wealth management feels like ancient history. Some broker-dealers have changed hands two  or even three  times over that span, while fee compression and the rise of passive ETFs have wrought major changes to the fund landscape.Financial advisors and their clients now have an array of new options when it comes to affiliations, business models and digital investment tools. With new regulation nudging it toward records, the RIA movement has put advisors at the center of every trend.To see what trends looked ready to reshape the industry at this time last year, see 19 Trends to Watch in 2019. To view the list of the main factors expected to spark change next year, scroll through our slideshow.Tags.The two big themes for the Indian wealth management industry.CNBC-TV18.The mobile phone has come a long way  from being a communication device to being a source of information to becoming a platform on which you can interact and transact. And it is this trend that is likely to become a key driver for the Indian wealth management industry. From making payments to checking our portfolio to even buying financial products like mutual funds at a gentle touch and swipe, mobile is making the wealth management industry look at advisory in a whole new way. And with players like PayTM & PhonePe offering mutual funds on their mobile app platforms, investment in financial assets really looks all set to take a quantum leap.According to Patrick Donaldson, head of Wealth Management, Asia Pacific at Refinitiv, global wealth managers are looking at technology to build scale while keeping advisory customised at the same time.AI & machine learning is seeing rapid adoption by global asset managers & advisors. Data can help companies build scale while keeping the basic objective of wealth creation at the centre of all advisory.The other big learning for the Indian mutual fund industry over the last one year has been in the fixed income market. Almost 10 months of defaults, downgrades, and credit tightness later, the market is realising the importance of having advance indicators that can reduce risk.India is becoming aware of the need for independent valuation in the fixed income market, says Arun Prasad, proposition sales leader, Refinitiv.Money managers are realising that relying on rating agencies alone is no longer enough. One needs to go deeper into market data and look at indicators like market colour which offer insights into instruments which arent very liquid and not traded very frequently.Prasad says the global practice of independent valuation is likely to catch on within the Indian financial market as well. At a time when the fixed income market still appears fragile, trust carries a high premium. A better, more transparent way to value and mark to market securities will perhaps be the key focus of Indian asset managers in the days to come.You May Also Like.Govt announces Rs 1,500 cr interest subvention for Mudra-Shishu loans.New French law asks social media firms to delete criminal content in 1 hour.1 in 4 popular YouTube COVID-19 videos in English mislead viewers.Trending on CNBC-TV18.recommended for you.
