Asset management.Asset management refers to systematic approach to the governance and realization of value from the things that a group or entity is responsible for, over their whole life cycles. It may apply both to tangible assets (physical objects such as buildings or equipment) and to intangible assets (such as human capital, intellectual property, goodwill or financial assets). Asset management is a systematic process of developing, operating, maintaining, upgrading, and disposing of assets in the most cost-effective manner (including all costs, risks and performance attributes).The term is commonly used in the financial sector to describe people and companies who manage investments on behalf of others. Those include, for example, investment managers that manage the assets of a pension fund.It is also increasingly used in both the business world and public infrastructure sectors to ensure a coordinated approach to the optimization of costs, risks, service/performance and sustainability.The International Standard, ISO 55000, provides an introduction and requirements specification for a management system for asset management.Contents.By industry[edit].Financial asset management[edit].The most common usage of the termasset manage refers to investment management, the sector of the financial services industry that manages investment funds and segregated client accounts. Asset management is part of a financial company which employs experts who manage money and handle the investments of clients. From studying the client's assets to planning and looking after the investments, all things are looked after by the asset managers and recommendations are provided based on the financial health of each client.Physical and Infrastructure asset management[edit].Infrastructure asset management is the combination of management, financial, economic, engineering, and other practices applied to physical assets with the objective of providing the best value level of service for the costs involved. It includes the management of the entire life cycleincluding design, construction, commissioning, operating, maintaining, repairing, modifying, replacing and decommissioning/disposalof physical and infrastructure assets.[1] Operation and maintenance of assets in a constrained budget environment require a prioritization scheme. As a way of illustration, the recent development of renewable energy has seen the rise of effective asset managers involved in the management of solar systems (solar park, rooftops, and windmills). These teams often collaborate with financial asset managers in order to offer turnkey solutions to investors. Infrastructure asset management became very important in most of the developed countries in the 21st century, since their infrastructure network was almost completed in the 20th century and they have to manage to operate and maintain them cost-effectively.[2]Software asset management is one kind of infrastructure asset management.The International Organization for Standardization published its management system standard for asset management in 2014.[3]The ISO 55000 series provides terminology, requirements, and guidance for implementing, maintaining and improving an effective asset management system.Enterprise asset management[edit].Enterprise asset management (EAM) systems are asset information systems that support the management of an organization's assets. An EAM includes an asset registry (inventory of assets and their attributes) combined with a computerized maintenance management system (CMMS) and other modules (such as inventory or materials management). Assets that are geographically distributed, interconnected or networked, are often also represented through the use of geographic information systems (GIS).GIS-centric asset registry standardizes data and improves interoperability, providing users the capability to reuse, coordinate, and share information in an efficient and effective manner . A GIS platform combined with information of both thehar andsof assets helps to remove the traditional silos of departmental functions. While the hard assets are the typical physical assets or infrastructure assets, the soft assets might include permits, licenses, brands, patents, right-of-ways and other entitlements or valued items.The EAM system is only one of the 'enables' to good asset management. Asset managers need to make informed decisions in order to fulfill their organizational goals, this requires good asset information but also leadership, clarity of strategic priorities, competencies, inter-departmental collaboration and communications, workforce and supply chain engagement, risk and change management systems, performance monitoring and continual improvement.Public asset management[edit].Public asset management expands the definition of enterprise asset management (EAM) by incorporating the management of all things of value to a municipal jurisdiction and its citizens' expectations. An example in which public asset management is used is land-use development and planning.Intellectual and non-physical asset management[edit].Increasingly both consumers and organizations use assets, e.g. software, music, books, etc. where the user's rights are constrained by a license agreement. An asset management system would identify the constraints upon such licenses, e.g. a time period. If, for example, one licenses software, often the license is for a given period of time. Adobe and Microsoft both offer time-based software licenses. In both the corporate and consumer worlds, there is a distinction between software ownership and the updating of software. One may own a version of the software, but not newer versions of the software. Cellular phones are often not updated by vendors, in an attempt to force a purchase of newer hardware. Large companies such as Oracle, that license software to clients distinguish between the right to use and the right to receive maintenance/support.[4].See also[edit].References[edit].Further reading[edit].External links[edit].Navigation menu.Personal tools.Namespaces.Variants.Views.More.Search.Navigation.Interaction.Tools.Print/export.Languages.The two big themes for the Indian wealth management industry.CNBC-TV18.The mobile phone has come a long way  from being a communication device to being a source of information to becoming a platform on which you can interact and transact. And it is this trend that is likely to become a key driver for the Indian wealth management industry. From making payments to checking our portfolio to even buying financial products like mutual funds at a gentle touch and swipe, mobile is making the wealth management industry look at advisory in a whole new way. And with players like PayTM & PhonePe offering mutual funds on their mobile app platforms, investment in financial assets really looks all set to take a quantum leap.According to Patrick Donaldson, head of Wealth Management, Asia Pacific at Refinitiv, global wealth managers are looking at technology to build scale while keeping advisory customised at the same time.AI & machine learning is seeing rapid adoption by global asset managers & advisors. Data can help companies build scale while keeping the basic objective of wealth creation at the centre of all advisory.The other big learning for the Indian mutual fund industry over the last one year has been in the fixed income market. Almost 10 months of defaults, downgrades, and credit tightness later, the market is realising the importance of having advance indicators that can reduce risk.India is becoming aware of the need for independent valuation in the fixed income market, says Arun Prasad, proposition sales leader, Refinitiv.Money managers are realising that relying on rating agencies alone is no longer enough. One needs to go deeper into market data and look at indicators like market colour which offer insights into instruments which arent very liquid and not traded very frequently.Prasad says the global practice of independent valuation is likely to catch on within the Indian financial market as well. At a time when the fixed income market still appears fragile, trust carries a high premium. A better, more transparent way to value and mark to market securities will perhaps be the key focus of Indian asset managers in the days to come.You May Also Like.Govt announces Rs 1,500 cr interest subvention for Mudra-Shishu loans.New French law asks social media firms to delete criminal content in 1 hour.1 in 4 popular YouTube COVID-19 videos in English mislead viewers.Trending on CNBC-TV18.recommended for you.
